docs/guide/commands.md, before:

---
title: Commands
description: GCOP (Git Copilot) commands.
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: GCOP Commands
    - property: og:description
      content: GCOP (Git Copilot) commands.
---

# GCOP Commands

GCOP enhances your Git workflow with several powerful commands. Here's a comprehensive list of available commands and their usage:

## Basic Commands

### `git gcommit` or `git c`

Generate an AI-powered commit message based on staged changes and commit them.

### `git ac`

Add all changes and commit with an AI-generated message.

### `git p`

Push changes to the remote repository.

### `git pf`

Force push changes to the remote repository (use with caution).

### `git undo`

Undo the last commit while keeping changes staged.

### `git ghelp`

Show the help message with a list of available GCOP commands.

### `git gconfig`

Open the GCOP configuration file in the default editor. See [Configuration](/guide/configuration) for more details.

### `git info`

Display detailed information about the current git repository. This command provides a comprehensive overview, including:

- Basic repository details (name, branch, latest commit)
- Contribution statistics (total commits, contributors, most active contributor)
- File and code statistics (repository size, most changed file, line count by language)
- Version control information (latest tag, branch count, untracked files)
- Advanced details (submodules, latest merge commit, file type statistics)

### `git amend`

Amend the last commit, allowing you to modify the commit message or add changes to the previous commit. The same as `git commit --amend`.

## Usage Examples

1. Generate and apply an AI commit message:

   ```
   git c
   ```

2. Add all changes and commit with an AI message:

   ```
   git ac
   ```

3. Undo the last commit:

   ```
   git undo
   ```

4. Push to the current branch:

   ```
   git p
   ```

5. View detailed repository information:

   ```
   git info
   ```

   This command now provides an extensive summary of your repository, offering insights into its structure, history, and current state. It's particularly useful for project management and code review processes.

   Example output includes project name, current branch, latest commit, contributor statistics, file changes, language-specific line counts (if cloc is installed), tag information, and more.

::: info INFO
Some advanced features like line count by language require additional tools (e.g., cloc) to be installed.
:::

6. Amend the last commit:

   ```
   git amend
   ```

   This command opens your default text editor, allowing you to modify the last commit message. If you've staged changes, they will be added to the previous commit.

::: warning
The `git amend` command modifies Git history. Use it with caution, especially if you've already pushed the commit you're amending to a shared repository.
:::

For more detailed information on each command, refer to the [Quick Start](/guide/quick-start.md) section in the guide.

Commit message:

docs: update GCOP command documentation and add new aliases
- Add `git ghelp` command documentation
- Add `git acp` command alias for `git add . && git gcommit && git push`
- Add `git amend` command alias for `git commit --amend`
- Update existing command descriptions for clarity

These changes improve the usability of GCOP by providing clearer documentation and simplifying common command sequences.

docs/guide/commands.md, after:

---
title: Commands
description: GCOP (Git Copilot) commands.
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: GCOP Commands
    - property: og:description
      content: GCOP (Git Copilot) commands.
---

# GCOP Commands

GCOP enhances your Git workflow with several powerful commands. Here's a comprehensive list of available commands and their usage:

## Basic Commands

### `git ghelp`

Show the help message with a list of available GCOP commands.

### `git gcommit` or `git c`

Generate an AI-powered commit message based on staged changes and commit them.

### `git ac`

Add all changes and commit with an AI-generated message.

The same as `git add . && git gcommit`.

### `git acp`

Add all changes, commit with an AI-generated message, and push to the remote repository.

The same as `git add . && git gcommit && git p`.

### `git p`

Push changes to the remote repository.

The same as `git push`.

### `git pf`

Force push changes to the remote repository (use with caution).

The same as `git push --force`.

### `git undo`

Undo the last commit while keeping changes staged.

The same as `git reset HEAD~`.

### `git amend`

Amend the last commit, allowing you to modify the commit message or add changes to the previous commit.

The same as `git commit --amend`.

### `git gconfig`

Open the GCOP configuration file in the default editor. See [Configuration](/guide/configuration) for more details.

### `git info`

Display detailed information about the current git repository. This command provides a comprehensive overview, including:

- Basic repository details (name, branch, latest commit)
- Contribution statistics (total commits, contributors, most active contributor)
- File and code statistics (repository size, most changed file, line count by language)
- Version control information (latest tag, branch count, untracked files)
- Advanced details (submodules, latest merge commit, file type statistics)

## Usage Examples

1. Generate and apply an AI commit message:

   ```
   git c
   ```

2. Add all changes and commit with an AI message:

   ```
   git ac
   ```

3. Undo the last commit:

   ```
   git undo
   ```

4. Push to the current branch:

   ```
   git p
   ```

5. View detailed repository information:

   ```
   git info
   ```

   This command now provides an extensive summary of your repository, offering insights into its structure, history, and current state. It's particularly useful for project management and code review processes.

   Example output includes project name, current branch, latest commit, contributor statistics, file changes, language-specific line counts (if cloc is installed), tag information, and more.

::: info INFO
Some advanced features like line count by language require additional tools (e.g., cloc) to be installed.
:::

6. Amend the last commit:

   ```
   git amend
   ```

   This command opens your default text editor, allowing you to modify the last commit message. If you've staged changes, they will be added to the previous commit.

::: warning
The `git amend` command modifies Git history. Use it with caution, especially if you've already pushed the commit you're amending to a shared repository.
:::

For more detailed information on each command, refer to the [Quick Start](/guide/quick-start.md) section in the guide.
