docs/guide/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction to GCOP (Git Copilot).
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: Introduction to GCOP
    - property: og:description
      content: Introduction to GCOP (Git Copilot).
---

<p align="center">
   <img src="/banner.png" alt="GCOP Banner" style="border-radius: 15px;">
</p>

# Introduction to GCOP

GCOP (Git Copilot) is an intelligent assistant designed to enhance your Git workflow by automating commit message generation using AI. It seamlessly integrates with your existing Git setup to make your development process smoother and more efficient. Help you write better git commit message.

## What is GCOP?

GCOP is a powerful Python-based tool that leverages large language models (LLMs) to revolutionize how you interact with Git. It offers a suite of features aimed at streamlining your version control process:

- Smart Commit Messages: Automatically generate meaningful commit messages based on your code changes.
- Flexible AI Integration: Work with various LLMs of your choice, allowing for customization to your specific needs.
- Simplified Git Commands: Utilize powerful aliases for common Git operations to speed up your workflow.

## Key Features

1. **AI-Powered Commit Messages**: Let AI analyze your changes and suggest contextually appropriate commit messages.
2. **Customizable LLM Integration**: Configure GCOP to work with your preferred AI model, such as OpenAI's GPT or others.
3. **Intuitive Git Aliases**: Simplify complex Git operations with easy-to-remember commands like `git c` for AI-assisted commits.
4. **Seamless Workflow Integration**: GCOP enhances your existing Git workflow without disrupting your familiar processes.

![GCOP Features](/images/git-ac-banner.png)

## Why Choose GCOP?

- **Time-Saving**: Automate the often time-consuming task of crafting meaningful commit messages.
- **Consistency**: Maintain a clear and informative commit history across your projects and teams.
- **Flexibility**: Adapt GCOP to your specific needs with customizable AI model settings.
- **Enhanced Collaboration**: Improve team understanding of code changes with well-structured, AI-generated commit messages.

## Video Demo

See GCOP in action! This video demonstrates how to use GCOP to generate a commit message:

<script setup>
import IFrame from '/components/iframe.vue'
</script>

<IFrame src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j7qKI_TdhXs" />

This video demonstrates how to use GCOP to generate a commit message:

<IFrame src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iP5qYxFaLS4" />

## Getting Started

To begin using GCOP and transform your Git experience:

1. Ensure you have Python 3.8 or newer and Git installed on your system.
2. Install GCOP using pip: `pip install gcop`
3. Initialize GCOP with `gcop init` to set up aliases in your Git configuration.
4. Configure your preferred AI model using `git gconfig`.

For detailed installation and configuration instructions, refer to our [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md).

Embrace the power of AI in your Git workflow with GCOP and elevate your development process today!

Commit message:

docs: add commit message quality info to introduction
- Include informational block about commit message quality
- Provide link to GCOP GitHub repo commit history

This update enhances the documentation by guiding users on how to assess the quality of commit messages and directs them to examples in the GCOP repository.

docs/guide/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Introduction to GCOP (Git Copilot).
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: Introduction to GCOP
    - property: og:description
      content: Introduction to GCOP (Git Copilot).
---

<p align="center">
   <img src="/banner.png" alt="GCOP Banner" style="border-radius: 15px;">
</p>

# Introduction to GCOP

GCOP (Git Copilot) is an intelligent assistant designed to enhance your Git workflow by automating commit message generation using AI. It seamlessly integrates with your existing Git setup to make your development process smoother and more efficient. Help you write better git commit message.

## What is GCOP?

GCOP is a powerful Python-based tool that leverages large language models (LLMs) to revolutionize how you interact with Git. It offers a suite of features aimed at streamlining your version control process:

- Smart Commit Messages: Automatically generate meaningful commit messages based on your code changes.
- Flexible AI Integration: Work with various LLMs of your choice, allowing for customization to your specific needs.
- Simplified Git Commands: Utilize powerful aliases for common Git operations to speed up your workflow.

## Key Features

1. **AI-Powered Commit Messages**: Let AI analyze your changes and suggest contextually appropriate commit messages.
2. **Customizable LLM Integration**: Configure GCOP to work with your preferred AI model, such as OpenAI's GPT or others.
3. **Intuitive Git Aliases**: Simplify complex Git operations with easy-to-remember commands like `git c` for AI-assisted commits.
4. **Seamless Workflow Integration**: GCOP enhances your existing Git workflow without disrupting your familiar processes.

![GCOP Features](/images/git-ac-banner.png)

## Why Choose GCOP?

- **Time-Saving**: Automate the often time-consuming task of crafting meaningful commit messages.
- **Consistency**: Maintain a clear and informative commit history across your projects and teams.
- **Flexibility**: Adapt GCOP to your specific needs with customizable AI model settings.
- **Enhanced Collaboration**: Improve team understanding of code changes with well-structured, AI-generated commit messages.

## Video Demo

See GCOP in action! This video demonstrates how to use GCOP to generate a commit message:

<script setup>
import IFrame from '/components/iframe.vue'
</script>

<IFrame src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/j7qKI_TdhXs" />

This video demonstrates how to use GCOP to generate a commit message:

<IFrame src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iP5qYxFaLS4" />

::: info
How is the quality of the commit message? 

You can see examples of commit messages generated by GCOP from the [gcop GitHub repo commit history](https://github.com/Undertone0809/gcop/commits/main/). All commit messages in the GCOP GitHub repo are generated by GCOP.
:::

## Getting Started

To begin using GCOP and transform your Git experience:

1. Ensure you have Python 3.8 or newer and Git installed on your system.
2. Install GCOP using pip: `pip install gcop`
3. Initialize GCOP with `gcop init` to set up aliases in your Git configuration.
4. Configure your preferred AI model using `git gconfig`.

For detailed installation and configuration instructions, refer to our [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start.md).

Embrace the power of AI in your Git workflow with GCOP and elevate your development process today!
